Installation Instructions: 

This microservice provides a means of communication with a MongoDB database containing grocery information. To install it, download the microservice directory and run npm install from the command line in the directory where it resides. Then, create a .env (private environment file), which includes the following:

MONGODB_CONNECTION_STRING=[your_string]
PORT=[your_port]

The connection string can be auto-generated by Atlas MongoDB or use a local DB if you so desire. The port number can be any port not already reserved, but it's generally good to avoid commonly used ports. I typically use 5001. 

To seed the database, simply send an HTTP POST request of the form http://localhost:5001/add_items

Communication Contract

Requesting information: 
To request information from the running microservice, simply generate an HTTP GET request to the running url and port number. If the microservice is running locally on port 5001, a request looks like:

http://localhost:5001/groceries

When requested through React using the Axios library, this is a sample request. 

    const [groceries, setGroceries] = useState(null)

    useEffect( () => {
        axios.get('http://localhost:5001/groceries')
        .then((data) => {
            console.log(data.data)
            setGroceries(data.data)
        })
        .catch(err => console.log(err))
    }, [])

Receiving information: 
Information is returned in the form of a JSON object. This object can be assigned to a variable in the frontend of your choice. From there it is up to the API consumer as to how they wish to use said JSON object. In the above example, groceries could be mapped to JSX and displayed in the React component. 

UML Diagram:



